README.md, before:

passhash
========

Easily and securely hash passwords with a variable amount of iterations of SHA512.

Takes in an optional username and number of iterations and then prompts for a password.

If a username or number of iterations is not provided it will prompt for them.

Installation
------------

    npm install -g passhash

Usage
-----

    -i, --iterations <number>        number of SHA512 iterations (default is set to 5000)
    -b, --bytes <number>             number of bytes to use for crypto random salt, must be >= 128 (default 128)
    -h, --help                       print this message and exit
    -u, --username <name>            username to use for entry
    -U, --updates                    check for available updates
    -f, --format                     change format of output
    -v, --version                    print the version number and exit

Default Output
--------------

    username:salt:hash:iterations

    test: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:2a0293e90184f6a9d569a794bd7cc8b46d38e4c4faae54e2f8221463c99ee4ebe46805f629d8189c8c64227833130d5d9f7caea1d9c0a5c5f7e238a0e9f4a149:1444

Change Output Format
--------------------

`passhash` allows the user to define the output. For output to be useful it should include at least the username, the salt, and the hash. 

Changing the format is easy. `passhash` has built in keywords: `{username}` `{salt}` `{hash}` and `{iterations}`. By default they are printed out `:` delimited.
For example if you didn't want to output the number of iterations:

    node passhash.js -f '{username}<<>>{salt}<<>>{hash}'

This would output:

    test<<>>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<<>>2a0293e90184f6a9d569a794bd7cc8b46d38e4c4faae54e2f8221463c99ee4ebe46805f629d8189c8c64227833130d5d9f7caea1d9c0a5c5f7e238a0e9f4a149

Example Prompt
--------------

    alex @ [ kovas :: (Darwin) ] ~/Projects/passhash $ node passhash.js 
    passhash: username:  test
    passhash: Please enter a password:  
    passhash: Please re-enter your password:  
    passhash: Number of iterations (default 5000):  (5000) 
    test:1N1SnR2+aqJPLgtdBZ3Bip4epRzLNAazg/cdqAOIDx65yxiifsf50DE/vXbHFoXtrM2ZbP3N2hq+d20LwkzwLDks//4E726se8iz8cwSgZjnKIYfzGUD6SPtZr7GQuR60TpC7qL9D9tXVHGjz+XS0E1AqaF7sdVna+2FmzQbgLc=:a9901ced04776219b0c59468aba567d16252ad17463ca8d7933206dde70e11b5e914be33d1611dde03e772ddc1dbfd70d5ef6368d9d7e7112ef77d6a539d1d3a:5000

Why?
----

I personally dislike how people do authentication on the web. `htpasswd` can easily be broken. `passhash` allows for a more robust password storage system.
Now you can store the output of `passhash` into a file and code your node server to use it for auth, eliminating the need for htaccess/htpasswd.
For added security you can choose a number of iterations and not store it in the file, using it only in your server code for the password validation.
Each user could also have a different number of iterations. Is this still somewhat insecure? Yes, someone could take a line from the file and
if the user choose a weak password and the attacker knew the number of iterations and the salt they could still use brute force.
You can't protect against stupid users.

License
-------

MIT

Commit message:

added support for bcrypt. changed prompts, command line options and updated README.

README.md, after:

passhash
========

Easily and securely hash passwords with a variable amount of iterations of SHA512.

You can also specify to use bcrypt and the number of rounds to use.

Takes in an optional username and number of iterations and then prompts for a password.

If a username or number of iterations/rounds is not provided it will prompt for them.

Installation
------------

    npm install -g passhash

Usage
-----

    -t, --hash-type <number>         1 for SHA512 or 2 for bcrypt
    -i, --iterations <number>        number of SHA512 iterations (default is set to 5000)
    -r, --rounds <number>            number of rounds for bcrypt
    -b, --bytes <number>             number of bytes to use for crypto random salt, must be >= 128 (default 128)
    -h, --help                       print this message and exit
    -u, --username <name>            username to use for entry
    -U, --updates                    check for available updates
    -f, --format                     change format of output. Not supported if using bcrypt as hash type
    -v, --version                    print the version number and exit

Default Output
--------------

###SHA512

    username:salt:hash:iterations

    test: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:2a0293e90184f6a9d569a794bd7cc8b46d38e4c4faae54e2f8221463c99ee4ebe46805f629d8189c8c64227833130d5d9f7caea1d9c0a5c5f7e238a0e9f4a149:1444

###bcrypt

    username:hash

    test:$2a$10$na0tH7pxC4ov9ZPGLgkvFO3YNuElwd7hNSoBRH3k3rHQXsj8TBSja

Change Output Format
--------------------

`passhash` allows the user to define the output. For output to be useful it should include at least the username, the salt, and the hash. 

Changing the format is easy. `passhash` has built in keywords: `{username}` `{salt}` `{hash}` and `{iterations}`. By default they are printed out `:` delimited.
For example if you didn't want to output the number of iterations:

    node passhash.js -f '{username}<<>>{salt}<<>>{hash}'

This would output:

    test<<>>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<<>>2a0293e90184f6a9d569a794bd7cc8b46d38e4c4faae54e2f8221463c99ee4ebe46805f629d8189c8c64227833130d5d9f7caea1d9c0a5c5f7e238a0e9f4a149

Example Prompt
--------------

    alex @ [ kovas :: (Darwin) ] ~/Projects/passhash $ ./passhash.js
    passhash: Enter 1 for SHA512 or 2 for bcrypt:  2
    passhash: username:  test
    passhash: Please enter a password:
    passhash: Please re-enter your password:
    passhash: Number of iterations for SHA512 or number of rounds for bcrypt :  10
    test:$2a$10$lqem0mDx5ZnV272iTWgnnOu8aG.m5Ts7aCbHuqVdTuAFe.K2MgzLa

Why?
----

I personally dislike how people do authentication on the web. `htpasswd` can easily be broken. `passhash` allows for a more robust password storage system.
Now you can store the output of `passhash` into a file and code your node server to use it for authentication, eliminating the need for htaccess/htpasswd.
For added security you can choose a number of iterations and not store it in the file, using it only in your server code for the password validation.
Each user could also have a different number of iterations. Is this still somewhat insecure? Yes, someone could take a line from the file and
if the user choose a weak password and the attacker knew the number of iterations and the salt they could still use brute force.
You can't protect against stupid users. That is why I have added in `bcrypt` support in the latest release. 

License
-------

MIT
